---
layout: post
title:  "Instructions for Humans - Day 3"
date:   2017-09-15 23:20:02 +0000
category: "Art"
description: How flawed memory is.
---

The big issue today was capturing data. People come in, we talk, interesting ideas emerge which I need to feed back into the system. Given the system is mostly my brain, this isn't a problem for the work itself, but it does matter for the documentation. I'd like to be able to look back on the subjects covered and try to trace the evolution of the work. It wont be perfect, but it's got to be better than relying on my memory. 

(Let's not get into how flawed memory is. Or maybe we should. But not right now.)

I've got a lapel mic for recording more formal talks later but it works with my phone so I tried recording my conversation with Darren, my first visitor. I have 30 minutes, but I haven't listened to it yet because of time. And there's the flaw in that. I'm going to look into ways to summarise audio, either pushing it through speech recognition or playing it back at 4x speed. I don't need a transcription, just the highlights. What did we talk about, etc. 

The rest of the day saw a good number of folks including a couple of friends, which was lovely. Notably Tim from the [Flickrmeets](https://www.flickr.com/groups/birmingham_flickrmeets/) group which he still runs after all these years. I started this back in 2006 and it's one of the seeds of my becoming an artist, so Tim for the first time in a loooong time was a lovely piece of loop closing. 

All in all though I was too tired to do anything too creative. It's been a crazy couple of weeks and this computer needs to defrag. Thankfully it's all about the conversations right now. The outputs come later. 